This project intend to be the "_Smallest PHP/XML/XSL website framework_".

It is a simple and didactic way to learn how to work with a (standard) [http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt XSLT 1.0]  [http://code.google.com/p/smallest-template-system/wiki/TemplateSyntax#Basic_concepts template system] with PHP, and how to use a XML database to produce web contents.

= Introduction =

PHP community is very lazy with XML applications and XML standards. There are no good XML framework, notorious problems with _SimpleXML_ (a "read-only" map of XML-to-array),  and no direct support to _xQuery 1.0_ and _XSLT 2.0_.
But [http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.dom.php PHP DOM] with _XSLT 1.0_, read/write XML... it rocks!

This "Smallest PHP XML/XSL Framework" is for demonstrates how to work with PHP, XML and XSLT, in a minimal framework, and without restricting to a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller classic MVC pattern]. 

== Scope ==
The aim is not to produce a "really very small" peace of code, the minimal framework need,
 * Use XML files or XML records (from database) as input;
 * Use XSLT (with CSS) as _template language_;
 * Supply to XSLT the "page state" and another "standard" data;
 * Use PHP also as a template language (!) and also for produce XML input date for XSLT.

To test if the little framework achieve these goals, it was inserted into a "website controler" application.
 
== History ==
In 2008 Tatarynowicz wanted to see how feasible it is to create a simple, portable system in which data is stored as XML and templates as XSL. He developed a little framework that  outputs XHTML 1.0 Strict pages, and manipulate page structure at any stage using standard XML/XSL tools.

[http://sputnik.pl/pies/framework/ It works] and the source code was the <tt>smallest-php-xml-xsl-framework 1.0</tt>; but, like other PHP+XSLT examples, the way it's implemented, everything is too strict and limited to work in real world imo. Tatarynowicz lost interest in XSLT as a templating language.


In 2011 PPKrauss find Tatarynowicz's work and used it as the "simple and didactic XSLT+PHP" framework implementation, augmenting the original software with some "real world" behaviours, producing the <tt>smallest-php-xml-xsl-framework 2.0</tt>.

Another reference for XSLT with PHP: http://symphony-cms.com/

Another reference for XSLT framework (with Cocoon): http://www.daisycms.org/ 

= Version 1.0 of 2010=
It was a first seminal work, showing what is a "mininal framework" to build sites with XML, XSLT and PHP.

= Version 2.X of 2011=
We added some minimal features to the framework, to do "real world" applications:

 * XSLT can see page state (POST/GET/SESSION variables);

 * XSLT can use XML-on-fly build by PHP (see FORM);

 * use of different XSLT-article standars, as NLM example.

 * sitemap+skyn permits submenu navigation.

== Installation ==

 # copy all zip source-code to a /www directory. Example: /var/www/smallest-php-xml-xsl-framework
 # Access it with your web browser. Example: http://localhost/smallest-php-xml-xsl-framework
 # Navigate. If any error, check folder permissions and, check if all XML and XSL PHP-configurations are enabled.

== Do your experiments ==
Change code and test by your self. Example:

 * change the conf.php file to adapt for another application.

 * change title attributes at xml/site (the site map).

 * change the xml/pages files (they are the page contents).

 * change the css/skin1.css adn/or xsl/SKIN1.xsl files (they express the site layout).

== Learn more == 
See [Tutorial].